# Cloud functions

Dynamic web applications require a trusted compute process. The compute process should be stateless so it can scale horizontally to meet any level of demand. Each process should execute in a completely isolated sandbox secure from noisy or nosy, concurrent neighbor processes. Dynamic functionality requires a trusted process for accessing sensitive API keys and the primary application database. The process should be least-privilege with only the permissions it needs and nothing more. A cloud function is the perfect encapsulation unit for a stateless, secure, and auto-scaling compute process. Taken to the logical conclusion, cloud functions become single-responsibility, wherein each function is a tiny slice of unique value—a perfectly isolated, discreet, and unique expression of required essential complexity.

Cloud functions can be pure: always returning the same response from the same set of arguments. Purity means cloud functions support referential transparency: any cloud function is trivial to replace with another function that meets the same contract. Web developers can author cloud functions in any mainstream programming language, trivially upgrading or removing them at any time.

The Functional Web App physical architecture enjoys perfect symmetry with its logical architecture. With cloud functions, the code we author is identical to the code that gets deployed—this symmetry results in a more straightforward debugging and maintenance developer experience.

Dynamic content needs to be immediately available and interactive to web consumers. Cloud functions provide the trusted context to render HTML-first and progressively enhance for specialized client-side interactivity. The FWA can be made interactive to the largest possible audience immediately without waiting for client JS to load, parse and, finally render the user interface. Providing the fastest contentful "paint"and avoiding layout shifts altogether. Forms and links are instantly functional, bringing first-input-delay near zero.  This approach also creates a better experience for disabled web consumers on devices without a visual interface. Progressive enhancement is ultimately the most resilient rendering technique for all web consumers because even when client-side JavaScript occasionally fails, the application will continue to function.
